---
layout: post
title: Why I Live With 57 Things
published: true
---

The less you have then the more epic your life.
<p>
Long time readers of this blog, and anyone who’s picked up a copy of The Art of Being Minimalist know that I’ve had a storied relationship with the personal possessions that I own and acquire.
<p>
Why you have so much stuff.
<p>
Basically, I think that we’ve been duped into buying things by an advertisement-dominated society for the last 50 years. The Internet is just now allowing us to break free of this mess and start to realize that the junk doesn’t matter.
<p>
Because I live with less stuff, and don’t buy much, all of the money I make from my minimalist business can go towards experiences such as travel and learning.
<p>
In my mind experiences are what life is worth living for, not possessions.
<p>
Last year, when I quit my job with $3,000 in the bank and moved to Portland, Or. I had 97 things. By the time I wandered back to the East coast, I had 75 things. When Alix and moved to San Francisco bay, I reduced my possessions to 50 things and a few weeks after I confessed that I really needed to live with more stuff than just 50 things.
<p>
Well, I just did one of my occasional stuff-counts, and it looks like I was right but not by much.
<p>
Even after saying that I was going to scale up the stuff, I only have 57 things.
<p>
Disclaimer that every minimalist blogger does about their stuff:
<p>
Now, obviously Alix and I have a bunch of shared items such kitchen and bedroom stuff. We got two used stools for our kitchen, we found an inexpensive couch and chair. We have a bed. I also hang my jackets on hangers. So before you leave a comment asking if I sleep on a bed, the answer is yes, I do.
<p>
Our kitchen stuff is just the essentials, but we recently purchased a blender/food processor which is decidedly un-minimalist, but allows us to have one of the best simple breakfasts known to man: freshly made fruit smoothies. My energy levels have skyrocketed and I’ve continued to lose weight because of this investment.
<p>
I’m counting my underwear and socks together because every other minimalist blogger does too. We’re allowed to cheat on undergarments because we always have. :)
<p>
I also have a few books that I’m reading right now. I usually pass my books on to people who really need them. For instance, I just read Ramit Sethi’s I Will Teach You to be Rich, which I’m giving to my brother because he really needs some personal finance advice at the moment.
<p>
Big purchases since moving to Cali.
<p>
I’ve made two big purchases since moving to Cali. The first was a new bike, a Surly Steamroller fixie. I’ve always wanted one, so I decided now was the time. The bike market here is outrageous, so I would have spent almost as much on a good used bike as this simple fixed gear bike, so I opted to order it from online.
<p>
I also purchased the new iPhone 4, because my old iPhone screen broke when I was in Brooklyn. I use the iPhone as a way to keep in touch with readers over Twitter and to write 85% of my blog posts. I’ve also started using Internet tethering on the iPhone which gives me Internet anywhere that I go and eliminates the need for Internet in our house –though there are bandwidth restrictions, which might be problematic if you watch a lot of TV online. We’ve gone over a once so far but it still seems to be cheaper than a dedicated line.
<p>
In the outbox:
<p>
A good minimalist always has an outbox, and I’ve put one thing in mine that I think are important to note here.
<p>
I decided recently that I should give away my Canon SLR camera. I haven’t used it more than once since moving to San Francisco, and only a dozen times in the last year. It definitely isn’t fitting into my ‘one-month-rule’, and so needs to go. This is hard for me, because I was a photographer for a long time. As some of you remember, I closed down my photography business for good around six months ago in order to focus exclusively on writing.
<p>
To be honest, I’ve made 2000% more as a writer than I ever did as a photographer, so that was a good move from a business perspective. It’s still hard, because the camera cost so much in the first place and the resell value is incredibly low now that consumer cameras are everywhere.
<p>
All of the photos you see on this blog were taken on my iPhone (including the one above) — you can see all of my photos here. It’s honestly way better for casual captures than my Digital Rebel ever was.
<p>
I’ve discarded a significant amount of clothing because of wear and tear over the last few months as well, so my clothes have actually become more streamlined. For instance, I used to have two hoodies, now I only have one new one. However, I’ve purchased more underwear, which has helped with not having to do laundry so much. I also have more pairs of jeans and more shoes than I used to.
<p>
Here’s my list of 57 things:
<ol>
<li>MacBook Pro</li>
<li>Macbook cleaning cloth</li>
<li>iPhone 4</li>
<li>iPhone earbuds</li>
<li>Black Yoga Mat</li>
<li>Moleskin notebook</li>
<li>Pen to write in moleskin notebook</li>
<li>Surly Steamroller Fixie</li>
<li>Helmet</li>
<li>Bike lock</li>
<li>Frye Boots</li>
<li>Belt</li>
<li>Gray Converse Allstars</li>
<li>Tom’s Shoes</li>
<li>REI two-person backpacking tent</li>
<li>Sleeping bag</li>
<li>Gray hoodie</li>
<li>Wind breaker</li>
<li>Sunglasses</li>
<li>Army jacket</li>
<li>Tweed jacket</li>
<li>Black heavier jacket</li>
<li>Gray backpack</li>
<li>Black Diamond Gray Backpacking bag</li>
<li>Jeans</li>
<li>Jeans</li>
<li>Cutoff old jeans</li>
<li>Purple tank</li>
<li>Purple tank</li>
<li>Gray tank</li>
<li>Gray long-sleeve sweatshirt</li>
<li>Gray long-sleeve T</li>
<li>Coffee tank</li>
<li>Gray v-neck</li>
<li>Gray v-neck</li>
<li>Black v-neck</li>
<li>Blue v-neck</li>
<li>Purple T</li>
<li>Gray T</li>
<li>Gray T</li>
<li>Black T</li>
<li>Toothbrush</li>
<li>Deodorant</li>
<li>Swim Trunks</li>
<li>Keys to apartment + bike lock</li>
<li>Minimalist “wallet” (really just a paper clamp that I keep my cards and cash in)</li>
<li>Gray sweatpants</li>
<li>Brown sweatpants</li>
<li>Brown button cowboy shirt</li>
<li>Gray button-down</li>
<li>Socks (about 10 pairs)
<li>Underwear (about 10 pairs)
<li>Sewing repair kit for clothes</li>
<li>Travel towel</li>
<li>Knit hat that Alix made me</li>
<li>1 TB harddrive</li>
<li>500 Gb harddrive (looking into cloud backup options)</li>
</ol>
Obviously you don’t need much to have a great life. I certainly don’t have much of anything.
<p>
The point is to focus your possessions around what really matters to you, so this number will be bigger or smaller depending on your specific interests.
<p>
I live a location independent life working on the Internet, my main interests are writing and practicing yoga. This allows me to really only need two things for my interests: a yoga mat and a computer. Your life might be different, and it’s okay to have more.
<p>
I’m flexible with my things though, so I may buy more things like <a href="https://www.bitcoinmining.com/best-bitcoin-cloud-mining-contract-reviews/">cloud miners</a> to make money. I may get rid of them. Who knows, I’m not really stressing about a specific number. Once I start traveling, I imagine I’m going to travel with less than 57 things, because I have a home-base here in Oakland now.
<p>
Why carry so many things when I can travel with 25 or 30 things?
<p>
The idea is that we need to curb our consumerism in order to focus on the important. This is why I live with less, because I’ve decided to stop consuming and start living.
